feat: message components (#674)
discordjs/guide: guide/interactions/buttons.md

# Button interactions

> With the components API you can create interactive message components. In this page we'll be focusing on how to send, receive and respond to buttons using discord.js!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the components API, you can create interactive message components. In this page, we'll be focusing on how to send, receive and respond to buttons using discord.js!
```

	}
});
```

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
<div is="discord-messages">
	<discord-message profile="bot">
		Pong! (ephemeral + components)
		<discord-embed
			slot="embeds"
			color="#0099ff"
			title="Some title"
			url="https://discord.js.org/"
		>
			Some description here
		</discord-embed>
	</discord-message>
</div>

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `MessageButton`! Let's move on to how to receive buttons!

## Receiving buttons

Whilst you can receive and handle a `ButtonInteraction` via the interaction event, we reccomend you use one of the collectors we'll be covering in the next section. Now to receive a `ButtonInteraction`, simply attach an event listener to your client and also use the `Interaction#isButton()` typeguard to make sure you only receive button interactions:

```js {2}
client.on('interaction', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isButton()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

## Button collectors

> These work quite similarly to message collectors, except that you apply them on a message rather than a channel.

Author: Yes, I saw that you modeled tgem after ReactionCollectors, I chose to re-use the line from the collectors guide, will adjust to mention reaction collectors instead

### ButtonInteractionCollector

> To create a basic event-based `ButtonInteractionCollector` simply do as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a basic event-based `ButtonInteractionCollector`, simply do as follows:
```

```js
client.on('message', message => {

> 	const filter = interaction => interaction.customID === 'primary' && interaction.user.id === '122157285790187530';

Author: Yes, I'm aware, I did however use your snowflake as easteregg as has been done on the Interactions guide PR, Sanc said they will eventually go throughout the entire guide and sort out which to keep as eastereggs and which to replace with placeholder values

```js {4-6}
client.on('message', message => {
	const filter = interaction => interaction.customID === 'primary' && interaction.user.id === '122157285790187530';

	message.awaitButtonInteraction(filter, { time: 15000 })
		.then(collected => console.log(`Collected ${collected.size} interactions`))
		.catch(console.error);
});
```

## Responding to buttons

The `ButtonInteraction` class has similar methods as the `CommandInteraction` class, which we we'll be covering in the following section:

::: tip
The following methods behave exactly the same as on the `CommandInteraction` class:
- `reply()`
- `editReply()`
- `defer()`
- `fetchReply()`
- `deleteReply()`
- `followUp()`
:::

### Updating the button message

The `ButtonInteraction` class provides a method to update the message the button is attached to, by using `ButtonInteraction#update()` as follows:

```js {1,3}
client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isButton()) return;
	if (interaction.customID === 'primary') await interaction.update('A button was clicked', { components: [] });
});
```

### Deferring and updating the button message

> Additionally to deferring the response of the interaction, you can defer the button, which will trigger a loading state:

Author: Yes, I remember our conversation on it, I just did decide since this is still a draft I will preliminary just go with what the official description says until Discord finally sorts out their stuff as you said

> Additionally to deferring the response of the interaction, you can defer the button, which will trigger a loading state:

Reviewer 2: likely won't wait for the official documentation to release before merging this into v13-prep, so we can move on with porting the rest of the guide code ad code samples ahead of time

if you are unsure decide for one and create an issue, so we can keep track of it later on, best with a reference to the section of course

```js {1,5-9}
const wait = require('util').promisify(setTimeout);

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isButton()) return;
	if (interaction.customID === 'primary') {
		await interaction.deferUpdate();
		await wait(4000);
		await interaction.update('A button was clicked', { components: [] });
	}
});
```

## Button styles

Currently there are five different button styles available:

* `PRIMARY` a blurple button
* `SECONDARY` a grey button
* `SUCCESS` a green button
* `DANGER` a red button
* `LINK` a button that navigates to a URL

> 

Reviewer 3: Assuming there will be a component mock-up around here once available.

Author: Yes, I will place a comment there for clarification

# Buttons

With the components API, you can create interactive message components. In this page, we'll be focusing on how to send, receive and respond to buttons using discord.js!

## Building and sending buttons

Buttons are part of the `MessageComponent` class, which can be sent via messages or interaction responses. A button, as any other message component, must be in an `ActionRow`.

::: warning
You can have a maximum of:
- five `ActionRows` per message
- five buttons within an `ActionRow`
:::

Now, to create a button we use the `MessageActionRow()` and `MessageButton()` builder functions and then pass the resulting object to `CommandInteraction#reply()` as `InteractionReplyOptions` like this:

```js {1,7-11,13}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()

> 			.addComponent(new MessageButton()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			.addComponents(new MessageButton()
```
I removed `addComponent` because it didn't do anything differently except limit to 1 entry, it now only has `addComponents` which can just take 1 normally

				.setCustomID('primary')
				.setLabel('primary')

> 				.setStyle('PRIMARY'));

Reviewer 4: Maybe add an exemple for an custom emoji in the exemple (Encoded native emoji is not needed i think or refer to the docs about message.react use) ?

Author: Unsure how that would resolve in vue-discord-message. Will have to wait for Sanc to weigh in.

		await interaction.reply('Pong!', { components: [row] });
	}
});
```

::: tip
The custom id is a dev defined string that can hold up to 100 characters.
:::

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
<div is="discord-messages">
	<discord-message profile="user">
		/ping
	</discord-message>
	<discord-message profile="bot">
		Pong! (+ components)
	</discord-message>
</div>

You can of course also send message components within an ephemeral response or alongside message embeds:

```js {1,13-19}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()

> 			.addComponent(new MessageButton()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			.addComponents(new MessageButton()
```

		</template>
		Pong!
		<template #actions>
			<DiscordButtons>
				<DiscordButton :disabled="true">Primary</DiscordButton>
			</DiscordButtons>
		</template>
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>

### Emoji buttons

If you want to use a guild emoji within a `MessageButton`, you can use the `setEmoji()` method:

```js {5}
const button = new MessageButton()
	.setCustomId('primary')
	.setLabel('Primary')
	.setStyle('PRIMARY')
	.setEmoji('123456789012345678');
```

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `MessageButton`! Let's move on to receiving button interactions!

## Receiving buttons

To receive a `ButtonInteraction`, attach an event listener to your client and use the `Interaction#isButton()` type guard to make sure you only receive buttons:

```js {2}
client.on('interactionCreate', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isButton()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

## Component collectors

These work quite similarly to message and reaction collectors, except that you will receive instances of the `MessageComponentInteraction` class as collected items.

::: tip
You can create the collectors on either a `message` or a `channel`.
:::

> For a detailed guide on receiving message components via collectors, please refer to the [collectors guide](/popular-topics/collectors.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For a detailed guide on receiving message components via collectors, please refer to the [collectors guide](/popular-topics/collectors.md#interaction-collectors).
```

```js {5}
const button = new MessageButton()
	.setCustomId('primary')
	.setLabel('Primary')
	.setStyle('PRIMARY')
	.setDisabled(true);
```

<DiscordMessages>
	<DiscordMessage profile="bot">
		<template #interactions>
			<DiscordInteraction profile="user" :command="true">ping</DiscordInteraction>
		</template>
		Pong!
		<template #actions>
			<DiscordButtons>
				<DiscordButton :disabled="true">Primary</DiscordButton>
			</DiscordButtons>
		</template>
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>

### Emoji buttons

If you want to use a guild emoji within a `MessageButton`, you can use the `setEmoji()` method:

```js {5}
const button = new MessageButton()
	.setCustomId('primary')
	.setLabel('Primary')
	.setStyle('PRIMARY')
	.setEmoji('123456789012345678');
```

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `MessageButton`! Let's move on to receiving button interactions!

## Receiving buttons

To receive a `ButtonInteraction`, attach an event listener to your client and use the `Interaction#isButton()` type guard to make sure you only receive buttons:

```js {2}
client.on('interactionCreate', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isButton()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

> ## Component collectors

Reviewer 2: here should refer to the dedicated collector section 👍

Buttons are part of the `MessageComponent` class, which can be sent via messages or interaction responses. A button, as any other message component, must be in an `ActionRow`.

::: warning
You can have a maximum of:
- five `ActionRows` per message
- five buttons within an `ActionRow`
:::

To create a button, you use the `MessageActionRow()` and `MessageButton()` builder functions and then pass the resulting object to `CommandInteraction#reply()` as `InteractionReplyOptions`, like so:

```js {1,7-13,15}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageButton()
					.setCustomID('primary')
					.setLabel('primary')
					.setStyle('PRIMARY'),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

::: tip
The custom ID is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters.
:::

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

> <!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
> <div is="discord-messages">
> 	<discord-message profile="user">
> 		/ping
> 	</discord-message>
> 	<discord-message profile="bot">
> 		Pong! (+ components)
> 	</discord-message>
> </div>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
<DiscordMessages>
	<DiscordMessage profile="bot">
		<template #interactions>
			<DiscordInteraction profile="user" :command="true">ping</DiscordInteraction>
		</template>
		Pong!
		<template #actions>
			<DiscordButtons>
				<DiscordButton>Primary</DiscordButton>
			</DiscordButtons>
		</template>
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>
```

You can also send message components within an ephemeral response or alongside message embeds.

```js {1,15-19,21}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageButton()
					.setCustomID('primary')
					.setLabel('primary')
					.setStyle('PRIMARY'),
			);

		const embed = new MessageEmbed()
			.setColor('#0099ff')
			.setTitle('Some title')
			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
			.setDescription('Some description here');

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [row] });
	}
});
```

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

> <!--- vue-discord-message doesn't yet have support for inline replies/interactions/ephemeral messages/components -->
> <div is="discord-messages">
> 	<discord-message profile="bot">
> 		Pong! (ephemeral + components)
> 		<discord-embed
> 			slot="embeds"
> 			color="#0099ff"
> 			title="Some title"
> 			url="https://discord.js.org/"
> 		>
> 			Some description here
> 		</discord-embed>
> 	</discord-message>
> </div>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
<DiscordMessages>
	<DiscordMessage profile="bot">
		<template #interactions>
			<DiscordInteraction
				profile="user"
				:command="true"
				:ephemeral="true"
			>ping</DiscordInteraction>
		</template>
		Pong!
		<template #embeds>
			<DiscordEmbed
				border-color="#0099ff"
				embed-title="Some title"
				url="https://discord.js"
			>
				Some description here
			</DiscordEmbed>
		</template>
		<template #actions>
			<DiscordButtons>
				<DiscordButton>Primary</DiscordButton>
			</DiscordButtons>
		</template>
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>
```

		const message = await interaction.fetchReply();
		const filter = i => i.customID === 'primary' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

		const collector = message.createMessageComponentCollector({ filter, time: 15000 });

		collector.on('collect', async i => {
			if (i.customID === 'primary') {
				await i.update({ content: 'A button was clicked!', components: [] });
			}
		});
		collector.on('end', collected => console.log(`Collected ${collected.size} items`));
	}
});
```

### Deferring and updating the button message

Additionally to deferring the response of the interaction, you can defer the button, which will trigger a loading state and then revert back to its original state:

```js {9,12-16}
client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const message = await interaction.fetchReply();
		const filter = i => i.customID === 'primary' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

		const collector = message.createMessageComponentCollector({ filter, time: 15000 });
		const wait = require('util').promisify(setTimeout);

		collector.on('collect', async i => {

> 			if (i.customID === 'primary') {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			if (i.customId === 'primary') {
```

# Buttons

> With the components API, you can create interactive message components. In this page, we'll be focusing on how to send, receive, and respond to buttons using discord.js!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the components API, you can create interactive message components. On this page, you will learn how to send, receive, and respond to buttons using discord.js!
```

prefer directly benefiting the reader

::: danger

> This page is a follow-up to the [CommandInteraction preview guide pages](https://deploy-preview-638--discordjs-guide.netlify.app/interactions/registering-slash-commands.html). Please carefully read those first so that you can understand the methods used in this section.

Reviewer 2: update to not link a deploy preview, please, will try to merge v13 PR's into v13-prep quite quickly, so we can have all of v13 in a WIP PR and have a single deploy preview from there

Author: preview linking was just a bridge solution proposed by Sanc to temporarily prevent people running into 404s, will adjust.

:::

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const button = new MessageButton()
			.setCustomID('primary')
			.setLabel('primary')
			.setStyle('PRIMARY');

		const embed = new MessageEmbed()
			.setColor('#0099ff')
			.setTitle('Some title')
			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
			.setDescription('Some description here');

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [[button]] });
	}
});
```

### Disabled buttons

If you want to prevent a button from being used, but not remove it from the message, you can make use of the `setDisabled()` method, which will make it unclickable for everyone:

```js {13}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageButton()
					.setCustomID('primary')
					.setLabel('primary')
					.setStyle('PRIMARY')
					.setDisabled(true),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

### Emoji buttons

> The label of a button can hold unicode emojis, but if you want to use guild emojis you have to use the `setEmoji()` method like so:

Reviewer 2: Label emojis and explicit button emojis are not quite the same thing, detailing that unicode emojis can be part of the label is warranted, but you can also still prefix the button label with a button emoji (different places of availability inside the interaction payload, unless that changed very recently)

```js {13}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageButton()
					.setCustomID('primary')
					.setLabel('primary')
					.setStyle('PRIMARY')
					.setEmoji('123456789012345678'),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

> Now you know all there is to building and sending a `MessageButton`! Let's move on to how to receive buttons!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you know all there is to building and sending a `MessageButton`! Let's move on to receiving button interactions!
```
slightly less convoluted phrasing

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

## Receiving buttons

> Whilst you can receive and handle a `ButtonInteraction` via the interaction event, we recommend you use one of the collectors we'll be covering in the next section. To receive a `ButtonInteraction`, attach an event listener to your client and use the `Interaction#isButton()` type guard to make sure you only receive component interactions.

Reviewer 2: I would really not recommend collectors over the global event for all use cases. There are clearly features where collectors are not the right choice, this makes it sound like they're always preferable.

```js {2}
client.on('interaction', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isButton()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

		const message = await interaction.fetchReply();
		const filter = i => i.customID === 'primary' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

		const collector = message.createMessageComponentInteractionCollector(filter, { time: 15000 });

		collector.on('collect', i => console.log(`Collected ${i.customID}`));
		collector.on('end', collected => console.log(`Collected ${collected.size} items`));
	}
});
```

::: danger
For ephemeral responses you cannot fetch a message object, so create the collector on a channel instead.
:::

### awaitMessageComponentInteraction

As with other types of collectors, you can also use a promise-based collector like this:

::: warning
Unlike other promise-based collectors, this one only collects a single item!
:::

```js 8-11}
client.on('interaction', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const message = await interaction.fetchReply();
		const filter = i => i.customID === 'primary' && i.user.id === '122157285790187530';

		message.awaitMessageComponentInteraction(filter, { time: 15000 })
			.then(i => console.log(`${i.customID} was clicked!`))
			.catch(console.error);
	}
});
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
obsolete additional newline

## Responding to buttons

> The `MessageComponentInteraction` class has similar methods as the `CommandInteraction` class. These methods behave exactly the same as on the `CommandInteraction` class:

Reviewer 2: similar or exactly the same? decide on one, remove the word doubling, if possible.

```js {1,7-13,15}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageButton()
					.setCustomID('primary')
					.setLabel('primary')
					.setStyle('PRIMARY'),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

::: tip
The custom ID is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters.
:::

Restart your bot and then send the command to a channel your bot has access to. If all goes well, you should see something like this:

<DiscordMessages>
	<DiscordMessage profile="bot">
		<template #interactions>
			<DiscordInteraction profile="user" :command="true">ping</DiscordInteraction>
		</template>
		Pong!
		<template #actions>
			<DiscordButtons>
				<DiscordButton>primary</DiscordButton>
			</DiscordButtons>
		</template>
	</DiscordMessage>
</DiscordMessages>

You can also send message components within an ephemeral response or alongside message embeds.

> ```js {1,15-19,21}
> const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');
> 
> client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
> 	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;
> 
> 	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
> 		const row = new MessageActionRow()
> 			.addComponents(
> 				new MessageButton()
> 					.setCustomID('primary')
> 					.setLabel('primary')
> 					.setStyle('PRIMARY'),
> 			);
> 
> 		const embed = new MessageEmbed()
> 			.setColor('#0099ff')
> 			.setTitle('Some title')
> 			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
> 			.setDescription('Some description here');
> 
> 		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [row] });
> 	}
> });

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```js {1,12-16,18}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton, MessageEmbed } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				// ...
			);

		const embed = new MessageEmbed()
			.setColor('#0099ff')
			.setTitle('Some title')
			.setURL('https://discord.js.org/')
			.setDescription('Some description here');

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', ephemeral: true, embeds: [embed], components: [row] });
	}
});
```

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageButton()
					.setCustomID('primary')
					.setLabel('primary')
					.setStyle('PRIMARY')
					.setDisabled(true),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

### Emoji buttons

If you want to use a guild emoji within a `MessageButton` you can do so using the `setEmoji()` method like this:

```js {13}
const { MessageActionRow, MessageButton } = require('discord.js');

client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;

	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const row = new MessageActionRow()
			.addComponents(
				new MessageButton()
					.setCustomID('primary')
					.setLabel('primary')
					.setStyle('PRIMARY')
					.setEmoji('123456789012345678'),
			);

		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Pong!', components: [row] });
	}
});
```

Now you know all there is to building and sending a `MessageButton`! Let's move on to receiving button interactions!

## Receiving buttons

> To receive a `ButtonInteraction`, attach an event listener to your client and use the `Interaction#isButton()` type guard to make sure you only receive buttons.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To receive a `ButtonInteraction`, attach an event listener to your client and use the `Interaction#isButton()` type guard to make sure you only receive buttons:
```
